---
layout: guide
title: Index Aliases API
cat: guide
sidebar: reference_api
---

p. APIs in elasticsearch accept an index name when working against a specific index, and several indices when applicable. The index aliases API allow to alias an index with a name, with all APIs automatically converting the alias name to the actual index name. An alias can also be mapped to more than one index, and when specifying it, the alias will automatically expand to the aliases indices. An alias can also be associated with a filter that will automatically be applied when searching, and routing values. 

p. Here is a sample of associating the alias @alias1@ with index @test1@:

<pre class="prettyprint">
curl -XPOST 'http://localhost:9200/_aliases' -d '
{
    "actions" : [
        { "add" : { "index" : "test1", "alias" : "alias1" } }
    ]
}'
</pre>

p. An alias can also be removed, for example:

<pre class="prettyprint">
curl -XPOST 'http://localhost:9200/_aliases' -d '
{
    "actions" : [
        { "remove" : { "index" : "test1", "alias" : "alias1" } }
    ]
}'
</pre>

p. Renaming an alias is a simple @remove@ then @add@ operation within the same API:

<pre class="prettyprint">
curl -XPOST 'http://localhost:9200/_aliases' -d '
{
    "actions" : [
        { "remove" : { "index" : "test1", "alias" : "alias1" } },
        { "add" : { "index" : "test1", "alias" : "alias2" } }
    ]
}'
</pre>

p. Associating an alias with more than one index are simply several @add@ actions:

<pre class="prettyprint">
curl -XPOST 'http://localhost:9200/_aliases' -d '
{
    "actions" : [
        { "add" : { "index" : "test1", "alias" : "alias1" } },
        { "add" : { "index" : "test2", "alias" : "alias1" } }
    ]
}'
</pre>

p. It is an error to index to an alias which points to more than one index.

h2. Filtered Aliases

p. Aliases with filters provide an easy way to create different "views" of the same index. The filter can be defined using Query DSL and is applied to all Search, Count, Delete By Query and More Like This operations with this alias. Here is an example:

<pre class="prettyprint">
curl -XPOST 'http://localhost:9200/_aliases' -d '
{
    "actions" : [
        {
            "add" : {
                 "index" : "test1",
                 "alias" : "alias2",
                 "filter" : { "term" : { "user" : "kimchy" } }
            }
        }
    ]
}'
</pre>

h2. Routing

p. Allows to associate routing values with aliases. This feature can be used together with filtering aliases in order to avoid unnecessary shard operations.

p. The following command creates a new alias @alias1@ that points to index @test@. After @alias1@ is created, all operations with this alias are automatically modified to use value @1@ for routing:

<pre class="prettyprint">
curl -XPOST 'http://localhost:9200/_aliases' -d '
{
    "actions" : [
        {
            "add" : {
                 "index" : "test",
                 "alias" : "alias1",
                 "routing" : "1"
            }
        }
    ]
}'
</pre>

p. It’s also possible to specify different routing values for searching and indexing operations:

<pre class="prettyprint">
curl -XPOST 'http://localhost:9200/_aliases' -d '
{
    "actions" : [
        {
            "add" : {
                 "index" : "test",
                 "alias" : "alias2",
                 "search_routing" : "1,2",
                 "index_routing" : "2"
            }
        }
    ]
}'
</pre>

p. As shown in the example above, search routing may contain several values separated by comma. Index routing can contain only a single value.

p. If an operation that uses routing alias also has a routing parameter, an intersection of both alias routing and routing specified in the parameter is used. For example the following command will use "2" as a routing value:

<pre class="prettyprint">
curl -XGET 'http://localhost:9200/alias2/_search?q=user:kimchy&routing=2,3'
</pre>

h2. Retrieving existing aliases

p. The get index alias api (Added since @0.90.1@) allows to filter by alias name and index name. This api redirects to the master and fetches the requested index aliases, if available. This api only serialises the found index aliases.

Possible options:
* @index@ - The index name to get aliases for. Partially names are supported via wildcards, also multiple index names can be specified separated with a comma. Also the alias name for an index can be used.
* @alias@ - The name of alias to return in the response. Like the index option, this option supports wildcards and the option the specify multiple alias names separated by a comma. This is a required option.
* @ignore_indices@ - What to do is an specified index name doesn't exist. If set to `missing` then those indices are ignored.

p. The rest endpoint is: `/{index}/_alias/{alias}`

h3. Examples:

p. All aliases for the index users:

<pre class="prettyprint">
curl -XGET 'localhost:9200/users/_alias/*
 {
  "users" : {
    "aliases" : {
      "user_13" : {
        "filter" : {
          "term" : {
            "user_id" : 13
          }
        },
        "index_routing" : "13",
        "search_routing" : "13"
      },
      "user_14" : {
        "filter" : {
          "term" : {
            "user_id" : 14
          }
        },
        "index_routing" : "14",
        "search_routing" : "14"
      },
      "user_12" : {
        "filter" : {
          "term" : {
            "user_id" : 12
          }
        },
        "index_routing" : "12",
        "search_routing" : "12"
      }
    }
  }
}
</pre>

p. All aliases with the name 2013 in any index:

<pre class="prettyprint">
curl -XGET 'localhost:9200/_alias/2013
{
  "logs_201304" : {
    "aliases" : {
      "2013" : { }
    }
  },
  "logs_201305" : {
    "aliases" : {
      "2013" : { }
    }
  }
}
</pre>

p. All aliases that start with 2013_01 in any index:

<pre class="prettyprint">
curl -XGET 'localhost:9200/_alias/2013_01*
{
  "logs_20130101" : {
    "aliases" : {
      "2013_01" : { }
    }
  }
}
</pre>

p. 



h3. Pre 0.90.1 way of getting index aliases

p. Aliases can be retrieved using the get aliases API, which can either return all indices with all aliases, or just for specific indices:

<pre class="prettyprint">
curl -XGET 'localhost:9200/test/_aliases'
curl -XGET 'localhost:9200/test1,test2/_aliases'
curl -XGET 'localhost:9200/_aliases'
</pre>
