---
layout: guide
title: Common Terms Query
cat: guide
sidebar: reference_query_dsl
---

p. The @common@ terms query is a modern alternative to stopwords which improves the precision and recall of search results (by taking stopwords into account), without sacrificing performance.

h2. The problem

p. Every term in a query has a cost.  A search for @"The brown fox"@ requires three term queries, one for each of @"the"@, @"brown"@ and @"fox"@, all of which are executed against all documents in the index. The query for @"the"@ is likely to match many documents and thus has a much smaller impact on relevance than the other two terms. 

p. Previously, the solution to this problem was to ignore terms with high frequency. By treating @"the"@ as a _stopword_, we reduce the index size and reduce the number of term queries that need to be executed.

p. The problem with this approach is that, while stopwords have a small impact on relevance, they are still important. If we remove stopwords, we lose precision, (eg we are unable to distinguish between @"happy"@ and @"not happy"@) and we lose recall (eg text like @"The The"@ or @"To be or not to be"@ would simply not exist in the index).

h2. The solution

p. The @common@ terms query divides the query terms into two groups: more important (ie _low frequency_ terms) and less important (ie _high frequency_ terms which would previously have been stopwords). 

p. First it searches for documents which match the more important terms. These are the terms which appear in fewer documents and have a greater impact on relevance.

p. Then, it executes a second query for the less important terms -- terms which appear frequently and have a low impact on relevance. But instead of calculating the relevance score for *all* matching documents, it only calculates the @_score@ for documents already matched by the first query.  In this way the high frequency terms can improve the relevance calculation without paying the cost of poor performance.

p. If a query consists only of high frequency terms, then a single query is executed as an @AND@ (conjunction) query, in other words all terms are required. Even though each individual term will match many documents, the combination of terms narrows down the resultset to only the most relevant.

p. Terms are allocated to the high or low frequency groups based on the @cutoff_frequency@, which can be specified as an absolute frequency (@>=1@) or as a relative frequency (@0.0 .. 1.0@). 

p. Perhaps the most interesting property of this query is that it adapts to domain specific stopwords automatically. For example, on a video hosting site, common terms like @"clip"@ or @"video"@ will automatically behave as stopwords without the need to maintain a manual list.

h2. Examples

In this example, words that have a document frequency greater than 0.1% (eg @"this"@ and @"is"@) will be treated as _common terms_.

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
  "common": {
    "body": {
      "query":            "this is bonsai cool",
      "cutoff_frequency": 0.001
    }
  }
}
</pre>

The number of terms which should match can be controlled with the @minimum_should_match@ ("see syntax":/guide/reference/query-dsl/minimum-should-match.html), @low_freq_operator@ (default @"or"@) and @high_freq_operator@ (default @"or"@) parameters. 


For low frequency terms, set the @low_freq_operator@ to @"and"@ to make all terms required: 

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
  "common": {
    "body": {
      "query":            "nelly the elephant as a cartoon",
      "cutoff_frequency": 0.001,
      "low_freq_operator" "and"
    }
  }
}
</pre>

which is roughly equivalent to:

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
  "bool": {
    "must": [
      { "term": { "body": "nelly"}},
      { "term": { "body": "elephant"}},
      { "term": { "body": "cartoon"}}
    ],
    "should": [
      { "term": { "body": "the"}}
      { "term": { "body": "as"}}
      { "term": { "body": "a"}}
    ]
  }
}
</pre>

Alternatively use @minimum_should_match@ to specify a minimum number or percentage of low frequency terms which must be present, for instance:

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
  "common": {
    "body": {
      "query":                "nelly the elephant as a cartoon",
      "cutoff_frequency":     0.001,
      "minimum_should_match": 2
    }
  }
}
</pre>

which is roughly equivalent to:

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
  "bool": {
    "must": {
      "bool": {
        "should": [
          { "term": { "body": "nelly"}},
          { "term": { "body": "elephant"}},
          { "term": { "body": "cartoon"}}
        ],
        "minimum_should_match": 2
      }
    },
    "should": [
      { "term": { "body": "the"}}
      { "term": { "body": "as"}}
      { "term": { "body": "a"}}
    ]
  }
}
</pre>

The @common@ terms query also supports @boost@, @analyzer@ and @disable_coord@ as parameters.
