---
layout: guide
title: Indices
cat: guide
sidebar: reference_modules
---

p. The indices module allow to control settings that are globally managed for all indices.

h1. Indexing Buffer

p. The indexing buffer setting allows to control how much memory will be allocated for the indexing process. It is a global setting that bubbles down to all the different shards allocated on a specific node.

p. The @indices.memory.index_buffer_size@ accepts either a percentage or a byte size value. It defaults to @10%@, meaning that @10%@ of the total memory allocated to a node will be used as the indexing buffer size. This amount is then divided between all the different shards. Also, if percentage is used, allow to set @min_index_buffer_size@ (defaults to @48mb@) and @max_index_buffer_size@ which by default is unbounded.

p. The @indices.memory.min_shard_index_buffer_size@ allows to set a hard lower limit for the memory allocated per shard for its own indexing buffer. It defaults to @4mb@.

h1. TTL interval

p. You can dynamically set the @indices.ttl.interval@ allows to set how often expired documents will be automatically deleted. The default value is 60s.

p. The deletion orders are processed by bulk. You can set @indices.ttl.bulk_size@ to fit your needs. The default value is 10000.

p. See also "TTL field documentation":http://www.elasticsearch.org/guide/reference/mapping/ttl-field/

h1. Recovery

p. The following settings can be set to manage recovery policy:

* @indices.recovery.concurrent_streams@: default to @3@.
* @indices.recovery.file_chunk_size@: default to @512kb@.
* @indices.recovery.translog_ops@: default to @1000@.
* @indices.recovery.translog_size@: default to @512kb@.
* @indices.recovery.compress@: default to @true@.
* @indices.recovery.max_bytes_per_sec@: since 0.90.1, default to @20mb@.
* @indices.recovery.max_size_per_sec@: deprecated from 0.90.1 by @indices.recovery.max_bytes_per_sec@.

h1. Store level throttling

p. The following settings can be set to control store throttling:

* indices.store.throttle.type: could be @merge@ (default), @not@ or @all@. See "store level throttling documentation":/guide/reference/index-modules/store/
* indices.store.throttle.max_bytes_per_sec: default to @20mb@.
